Student Name: Amro Elbahrawy

Course: SOEN 6841 (Software Project Management)

Journal URL: https://github.com/am-elbah/SOEN-6841-Journals

Week 1: Jan 18-Jan 24

Date: 1/23/2024

Key Concepts Learned:
Familiarized with the key concepts regarding softwre project management, project management, the difference between them, and the process for each one.
Learned the general concepts for the tasks involving each step in the software project management process.
Saw how project scoping and charters are applied in a real world software project.
Applied these concepts in projects that were previously done in other courses.

Application in Real Projects:
Considering how complex and demanding the current software projects are due to the constant evolution in technology, a highly competitive market, and stakeholders who require specific needs, applying 
the software managment principles as guidelines to follow is extremely helpful to easily track, manage, monitor, and have visibility over the project's progress.
Challenges include providing an accurate scope for the project that satisfies everybody, especially when stakeholders' requirements contain ambiguity or if they have different needs.
Configuration management requires very thorough understanding of the project's requirements and costs, in order to know what the possible changes are and adapt to them accordingly.

Peer Interactions:
I asked my brother to ask the software project management team in his company to provide a general explanation on how they usually initiate software projects.
Challenges Faced:
Some difficulty was faced in Chapter 1's exercise while I was searching for the main factors on why government agencies are investing more into the IT field.
Project charter and scope were a bit harder to distinguish at the start, especially knowing which information better fits which concept. (for example, numerical values such as the expected customer satisfaction is usually mentioned in the scope and not the charter)
Things that require estimation or have uncertainty such as effort and cost estimation feel very challenging to do, especially if the manager is not experienced about these things.

Personal development activities:
I tried to apply some project initiation management steps such as scope and objectives to previous projects that I made for previous courses in Concordia.

Goals for the Next Week:
Thorough Understanding of the chapters to be taken next week, and how they are related to this week's readings.
Areas that would require more reading for me would be ones that require estimation or uncertainty, such as setting up the project plan and estimating the costs and efforts.
