Week 4 Journal
Student Name: Amro Elbahrawy

Course: SOEN 6841 (Software Project Management)

Journal URL: https://github.com/am-elbah/SOEN-6841-Journals

Week 1: Feb 11-Feb 17

Date: 2/17/2024

Key Concepts Learned:
The main activities done this week was starting to prepare for the midterm next week, as well as preparing for the pitching for our project.
A lot of new information about the different project topics were learned from the classroom’s project pitches. Especially the part were there many open market spots for the proposed project topics, and the innovative ideas given by the teams.

As for midterm preparations, it was mostly making sure that I properly learned all main points provided from Chapter 1.

Application in Real Projects:
Reflecting on our project pitching, it was shown that our project’s idea remains original and it should be a viable market option that justifies proceeding with the remaining project management process steps for it, starting with project planning.

Peer Interactions:
A small talk was made between the team members to assess the performance of our project pitching, and whether or not the new ideas that we proposed are good enough to make it to the market.
I also had some confusions in chapter 1, specifically why software applications begin with user requirements, whereas software products begin with market analysis. So, I asked my project team members for clarification.

Challenges Faced:
Making the slides presentation be both brief and informative for the limited time of 4 minutes was a bit hard, but it was manageable since we knew what the most important key points are in the pitching given by the rubrics.

Time management issues are being faced as many works is being provided by the courses due to the reading week being so close. So, time allocation for studying for the midterm is a bit rough for me.






Personal development activities:
I searched for more example case studies for project initiation and planning for software projects to further understand how project scopes, charters, and project descriptions are provided from various examples.

Goals for the Next Week:
Next week will all be dedicated to preparing for the midterm exam.
