Week 3 Journal
Student Name: Amro Elbahrawy

Course: SOEN 6841 (Software Project Management)

Journal URL: https://github.com/am-elbah/SOEN-6841-Journals

Week 1: Feb 04-Feb 10

Date: 2/10/2024

Key Concepts Learned:
Revision was done for Chapter 4 because I felt like some concepts in risk management was still not clear to me, especially the part where unexpected events that can impact the project positively are also considered as risks.

The term configuration management was new to me, but some of its tasks such as change requests management were known to me from software testing courses. So, knowing that it has a formal process for project management was very insightful.

The difference between Top-Down and Bottom-Up project planning, and how they’re conducted.
The biggest thing that I learned from Chapter 6 was how to divide the tasks into smaller sub-tasks and how to allocate time and resources for each task for the WBS.


Application in Real Projects:
I asked my brother on how their company’s project management office does the WBS and they were kind enough to share one with me for one of their projects.
Their WBS consisted of a table containing the task name, duration, expected start and end dates, any predecessor tasks, and resource names. The table also included the Gantt chart next to it showing the task’s given duration, any other external tasks, buffers, milestones, and deadlines. It was a very good example that further explained what was discussed in Chapter 6.

Peer Interactions:
I asked people who are working in the industry as software testers about the configuration change request plans, and they said they do very similar things to what was discussed in chapter 5.

I shared some of what I learned to my brother who works as a business consultant, and he said that he does many of what is explained in Chapter 6 and gave me more insight about some concepts there, especially Gantt charts and resource allocation.

Challenges Faced:
For Chapter 4, I had trouble understanding how the impact of a risk is calculated.
As for Chapters 5 and 6, no challenges were faces since the slides and the book explained everything clearly and I found good examples that illustrated what was explained.



Personal development activities:
I started searching for more sources about software project management as a topic, because the content of this course has interested me a lot. I will try to gain more experience about software project management to help me with my Resume and my job search.

Goals for the Next Week:
Next week will be mostly preparing for the project pitching that will be held next week.
